---
title: 2017-52.x Release Notes
keywords: release notes
sidebar: doc_sidebar
published: false
permalink: 2017_52.x_release_notes.html
summary: Learn about new and updated features.
---

2017-52.x release highlights:
- Improvements to alert monitoring and statistics.
- The Query Builder UI now supports autocomplete in many places. Other changes greatly facilitate query construction for new users.
- A metrics aggregator for internal metrics removes clutter from your source browser and potentially from queries.
- New and changed integrations.
- Other improvements

## Alert Monitoring and Statistics Improvements

If users experience slow system response, they currently can't see the internal metrics that can help them discover why. A set of new internal metrics allows users to investigate how changes they make to their queries affect system performance. Fine tuning alerts or making other changes will then result in a more responsive system.

We've added the following new internal metrics:
* `~query.requests` --
* `~metric.new_host_ids`
* `~metric.new_metric_ids`
* `~metric.new_string_ids`
* `~alert.query_time.{alert_id}`
* `~alert.query_points.{alert_id}`
* `~alert.checking_frequency.{id}`

See [Troubleshoot Your Wavefront Instance with Internal Metrics](wavefront_monitoring.html#using-internal-metrics-to-optimize-performance)

**Note:** Wavefront plans on turning on this feature on its different Wavefront servers over the next few weeks.

## Query Builder UI Changes

Based on customer feedback, Wavefront engineers have revamped the Query Builder UI to make it easier for new users to construct queries. For example, autocomplete is now available in many of the fields.

## Metrics Aggregator for Internal Metrics

For many of the internal Wavefront metrics that are visible in the System Usage dashboard reporting has changed. These metrics previously reported data so that individual Wavefront backend processes that emitted the data were separate Wavefront sources. In some cases, these data used point tags, such as `collector=`.
Wavefront now pre-aggregates these data and emits a single series with `source=wavefront` for them. For any new metrics, you source browser is no longer cluttered by the individual internal Wavefront sources. Old metrics continue to be available for individual Waverfront sources until those metrics become obsolete.

**Note:** Wavefront plans on turning on this feature on its different Wavefront servers over the next few weeks.

## New and Changed Integrations

See [New and Changed Integrations](integrations_new_changed.html) for info on integrations. We update this file frequently as new integrations become available.

## Other Improvements
This release includes the following other improvements:
* The variables icon (three horizontal bars) in the top right of the page now remains visible even if the user scrolls down to other parts of the page.
* Improved styling, such as clearer color separation, for chart legends
