---
title: 2017-28.x Release Notes
keywords: release notes
sidebar: doc_sidebar
published: false
permalink: 2017_28.x_release_notes.html
summary: Learn about new and updated features in the Wavefront 2017-28.x release.
---

The Wavefront 2017-28.x release introduces a number of major improvements to data ingestion, new user onboarding, alerts, and documentation:

- Integrations facilitate setting up links between Wavefront and external systems. Data integrations offer supported data ingestion setup and in some cases dashboard installation. Other integrations support setting up links with incident management and notification services and authentication providers. The AWS integration has been significantly expanded, with improved dashboards, new source tags, support for AWS tags, and improved connection management.

- The in-product Getting Started tutorial is for new Wavefront instances and new users within existing instances. The tutorial gives a overview of Wavefront architecture, a preview of dashboards and alerts, and next steps. If you are a trial user, the tutorial leads you through the process of setting up your first integration.

- Alerts and webhooks have been enhanced in several ways. Alert metrics are now tracked, enabling reusability and improved alert maintenance. New "No Data" states are now reported so you can generate alerts when metrics stop reporting. More information is now available to webhooks and improved webhook templates support formatting that information.

- A new standalone documentation site is now available at [https://docs.wavefront.com](https://docs.wavefront.com).

## Integrations

This release introduces [integrations](integrations.html), a mechanism to facilitate setting up links between the Wavefront application and external systems. Integrations consist of in-product installation support and documentation and automatic dashboard installation. The main types are:

- **Featured, Collector, and Code Instrumentation** - set up sending metrics data into Wavefront. These include:
  - Ingesting metrics into Wavefront using a standard collector agent and the Wavefront proxy.
  - Ingesting metrics using a technology-specific collector and the Wavefront proxy.
  - Ingesting [log data](integrations_log_data.html).
  - Sending custom metrics from applications to the Wavefront proxy.
  - Pulling metrics from Amazon Web Services.
- **Alert Notification** - set up sending alerts from Wavefront to incident management systems and notification services.
- **Authentication** - set up authentication providers to enable SSO access to the Wavefront application.

### AWS Integration

The [Amazon Web Services integration](integrations_aws_metrics.html) adds:

- Improved dashboards that now include alert definitions
- Source tags that indicate source service (EC2, EBS, etc.). The format of the tags is `wavefront.aws.<service_emitting_the_metric>`. For example, `wavefront.aws.ec2`.
- Support for including AWS tags for AWS EC2 and EBS services in CloudWatch metrics.
- EC2 integration has been renamed AWS Metrics+ to reflect that metrics are pulled from many AWS services.
- A connection to an integration that is not working is automatically throttled or disabled. You can also manually disable and enable AWS integrations.

## Proxies

The [Wavefront proxy](proxies_installing.html) is now available on Mac and Windows platforms.

## Alerts

- Alert states exposed as [metrics](alerts_dependencies.html) to support alert dependency hierarchies, re-usability, and improve alert maintenance. For example, an alert that depends on 2 different alerts can now refer to the corresponding alert metrics to take action when both the underlying alert metrics are generated.
- Added the number of alert firings for the last day, week, and month to the Alerts page.
- Now supports a "no data" alert state. You can filter alerts whose queries report no data and configure a webhook to trigger for "no data" alert state changes.

### Alert Notifications

- Added [webhook templates](webhooks_alert_notification.html#customizing-a-webhook-template) for VictorOps and HipChat.
- Added new  webhook iterators `failingAlertSeries`, `inMaintenanceAlertSeries`, `newlyFailingAlertSeries`, and `recoveredAlertSeries` that provide more information about the alert.
- Series statistics (first, last, min, max, avg) when an alert threshold is crossed are now available to webhook [payload variables](webhooks_alert_notification.html#payload-variables). The values are available from the `failingAlertSeries` iterator.
- Added counters for [webhook response codes](webhooks_alert_notification.html#querying-webhook-responses).

## New User Configuration

- User configuration - For new accounts, the Always Open Query Builder [user preference ](users_account_managing.html#configuring-your-preferences) is true.
- New trial account users have all [permissions](permissions_overview.html).

## UI

### Charts

- Added a color picker charts.html#query to query lines.
- All color pickers now include standard palette colors from UI.

### Brand

- New Wavefront by VMware product logo.

## Standalone Documentation Site

Standalone Wavefront documentation is now available at [https://docs.wavefront.com](https://docs.wavefront.com) and supersedes the documentation at the [Wavefront Community](https://community.wavefront.com/docs/) site which is deprecated.

The documentation site supports hierarchical navigation, non-hierarchical labels, and robust search.

In-product documentation links go to the new site.
