---
title: 2017-48.x Release Notes
keywords: release notes
tags: [release notes]
sidebar: doc_sidebar
permalink: 2017_48.x_release_notes.html
summary: Learn about new and updated features in the Wavefront 2017-48.x release.
---

2017-48.x release highlights:
- The Wavefront UI now conforms to Project Clarity guidelines.
- The Wavefront Dark Theme has been renamed to Carbon Black.
- Improved Query Builder user experience
- Improved series matching
  - A new query language element, `by`, allows you to create outer joins. You can use the element to focus the query that might otherwise be to broad to result in a match.
  - If you use a boolean query language operator such as `and`, the query language now flips the two items if it can't find result using the original query.
- Source tagging API now ignores system tags.

## Project Clarity UI

Project Clarity is an open source design system that combines UX guidelines, patterns, and front-end code in one solution. Using Clarity for the Wavefront UI adds consistency and makes Wavefront easier to use, while the actual differences are fairly minimal. See https://vmware.github.io/clarity/.

## Improved Query Builder User Experience

Query Builder was designed to allow users easy access to query language elements. After putting together the query's skeleton, users can fine-tune the query in the Query Editor. It's not possible to go from the Query Editor to the Query Builder.

In earlier releases, you can edit the query in query builder, but as a result you enter the query editor. Users often selected the text inadvertendly, and were then unable to return to Query Builder.

Starting with this release, you can view but you cannot change queries that you build in the Query Editor. To enter the Query Editor, you click the Query Builder toggle
