---
title: 2017-32.x Release Notes
keywords: release notes
sidebar: doc_sidebar
published: false
permalink: 2017_32.x_release_notes.html
summary: Learn about new and updated features in the Wavefront 2017-32.x release.
---

2017-32.x release highlights:
- Wavefront Analytics for Pivotal Cloud Foundry monitoring (Beta)
- New Google Cloud Platform monitoring (Beta)
- New Alert Targets

## Wavefront Analytics for Pivotal Cloud Foundry

The [Wavefront Analytics for Pivotal Cloud Foundry integration](pcf.html) is a full-featured integration enabling you to monitor your PCF environment.

The integration includes a Wavefront by VMware Nozzle for PCF tile (available on the [Pivotal Network](https://network.pivotal.io/products/wavefront-nozzle)), the Wavefront integration and over 10 pre-defined Wavefront dashboards.

The Wavefront by VMware Nozzle for PCF tile includes three components:
- A Wavefront Nozzle that retrieves metrics about your PCF deployment from the Loggregator Firehose and BOSH Health Monitor and sends them to Wavefront.
- A Wavefront Proxy that sends metrics to Wavefront in a secure, fast and reliable manner.
- A Wavefront Service Broker for PCF that enables developers to send their app metrics to Wavefront.

The Wavefront Service Broker for PCF exposes service plans on the Marketplace. Developers can create service plan instances using Apps Manager or the Cloud Foundry Command Line Interface (cf CLI) and bind them to their apps. Creating a Wavefront Proxy for PCF service instance and binding it to an app provides the routing information of a Wavefront proxy to the app. This lets developers send app metrics to Wavefront through the proxy.

To get started monitoring your PCF environment, follow the instructions provided in the Wavefront Pivotal Cloud Foundry integration. In your Wavefront account, go to Integrations > Pivotal Cloud Foundry.

This new capability is introduced as a Beta feature in this release.

## Google Cloud Platform

You can now monitor your Google Cloud Platform (GCP) services using Wavefront. This includes compute, storage, app engine, container, big query and many more.   For a complete list of metrics, see the [GCP Metrics](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/metrics#gcp) section in the Google Cloud monitoring documentation.

To try this new feature, in your Wavefront account go to your-wavefront-domain.wavefront.com/extdata, click the “Add Google Cloud Platform” on the left and follow the instructions.

This new capability is introduced as a Beta feature in this release. In a following release we will also introduce a new “integration” (in the Integrations page) for GCP and out-of-the box dashboards.

Try it out and let us know your feedback!

## Alert Targets

Managing who gets notified when alerts fire gets increasingly complex as more users adopt Wavefront and the number of alerts increases. Alert targets makes it easier to manage notifications by providing a shared notification "target" that can be used by many alerts. There are three types of alert targets:

- Email: An email distribution list
- PagerDuty: Send to a PagerDuty Service
- Webhook: Call a Webhook URL

Alert targets also allow you to customize the content of the alert that is sent using Mustache templates. You can now control the content of the alert sent to email and PagerDuty, in addition to the customization that could already be done with Webhooks. Within the template you have access to many of the values associated with the alert, including the value of the condition that triggered the alert and alert tags.

An alert can send a notification to one or more alert targets. You can also continue to send notifications directly to email or PagerDuty (without using alert targets). Existing Webhook notifications have been automatically converted to the new alert targets.

To create and edit alert targets, go to Browse > Alert Targets.
