---
title: 2017-36.x Release Notes
keywords: release notes
sidebar: doc_sidebar
published: false
permalink: 2017_36.x_release_notes.html
summary: Learn about new and updated features in the Wavefront 2017-36.x release.
---

2017-36.x release highlights:
- Query Planner
- Alert Checking Optimizations
- Alert Target Improvements

## Query Planner

Wavefront 2017-36 ships with our new, patent-pending query planner that further optimizes query execution so that query compilation happens as quickly as possible (in interactive queries, you can observe compilation time, which starts when a query is issued and ends when the process bar shows up). Using all available statistics about the data shape of underlying metrics and the intent expressed by the query, the query planner attempts to generate the most efficient query plan in the shortest possible time.

## Alert Checking Optimizations

Based on customer feedback, Wavefront is now automatically adjusting alert processing parallelization so that alert queries execute as much as possible according to their intended cycle times, even if those queries run for minutes. In the past, we used a resource target as the guiding principle (limited by CPU/datastore scan rates, etc.). With 2017-36, the goal is to get as close as possible to the intended cycle times.

This change can lead to an increase in data scan rate (DSR) for your implementation. In the alerting UI, you can examine the scan cost associated with each alert and you can adjust the check frequency. Check frequency directly affects resource consumption, that is, if you change a check interval of 1 minute to 2 minutes, you half the scan costs associated with an alert. Wavefront welcomes your feedback and your ideas for optimizing individual alerts.

## Alert Target Improvements

Alert targets now show a user-friendly name in the Alerts list.
