---
title: 2017-24.x Release Notes
keywords: release notes
tags: [release notes]
sidebar: doc_sidebar
permalink: 2017_24.x_release_notes.html
summary: Learn about new and updated features in the Wavefront 2017-24.x release.
---

The Wavefront 2017-16.x release introduces two major features to improve the on-boarding and data ingestion process: integrations and the "Getting Started" wizard. 

Integrations facilitate setting up links between Wavefront and external systems. Data integrations offer supported data ingestion setup and in some cases dashboard installation. Other integrations support integration with incident management and notification services and authentication providers.

The "Getting Started" wizard is for new Wavefront instances and new users within existing instances. The wizard leads you through the process of setting up your first integration and gives a preview of dashboards and alerts.

The AWS integration has been significantly expanded, with improved dashboards, new source tags, support for AWS tags, and improved connection management. 

Alerts and webhooks have been enhanced in several ways. Alert metrics are now tracked, enabling reusability and improved alert maintenance. New "No Data" states are now reported so you can generate alerts when metrics stop reporting. More information is now available to webhooks and improved webhook templates support formatting that information.

A new standalone documentation site is now available at [https://docs.wavefront.com](https://docs.wavefront.com).


## Integrations

This release introduces [integrations](integrations.html), a mechanism to facilitate setting up links between the Wavefront application and external systems. Integrations consist of in-product installation support and documentation and automatic dashboard installation. The main types are:

- **Featured, Collector, and Code Instrumentation** - set up sending metrics data into Wavefront. These include:
  - Ingesting metrics into Wavefront using a standard collector agent and the Wavefront proxy
  - Ingesting metrics using a [technology-specific collector](integrations_containers.html) and the Wavefront proxy
  - Ingesting [log data](integrations_log_data.html)
  - Sending custom metrics from applications to the Wavefront proxy
  - Pulling metrics from Amazon Web Services.
- **Alert Notification** set up sending alerts from Wavefront to incident management systems and notification services.
- **Authentication** set up authentication providers to enable SSO access to the Wavefront application.

### AWS Integration 

The [Amazon Web Services integration](integrations_aws_metrics.html) adds:

- Improved dashboards now include alert definitions
- Source tags indicate source service (EC2, EBS, etc.). The format of the tags is `integration.aws.<service_emitting_the_metric>`. For example, `integration.aws.ec2`.
- AWS tags for AWS EC2 and EBS services can now be included in CloudWatch metrics.
- EC2 integration has been renamed AWS Metrics+ to reflect that metrics are pulled from many AWS services.
- A connection to an integration that is not working is automatically throttled or disabled. You can also manually disable and enable AWS integrations.

## Alerts

- Alert states exposed as [metrics](alerts_dependencies.html) to support alert dependency hierarchies, re-usability and improve alert maintenance. Alert metrics provide the ability to query an alert's firing history.
- Added the frequency of alert firings to the Alerts page.
- Now supports “no data” alert states so you can filter alerts whose queries report no data.

### Alert Notifications

- Alert tags are now sent to PagerDuty.
- Series values (first, last, min, max, avg) when an alert threshold is crossed are available as webhook variables. These are values for the Display Expression associated with the alert. If the Display Expression is not configured, the values are not set.
- Added [webhook templates](integrations_alert_notification.html) for VictorOps and HipChat.
- Added counters for webhook response codes.

## New User Configuration

- User configuration - For new accounts, [Always Open Query Builder](query_language_query_builder.html) is true.
- New Trial account users have full permissions by default.

## UI

- Charts - Added a color picker to query lines. 
- Color Pickers - All color pickers now include standard palette colors from UI.

### Brand

- New Wavefront by VMware product logo
- Simplified product footer includes link to [Privacy policy](privacy.html)


## Standalone Documentation Site

Standalone Wavefront documentation is now available at [https://docs.wavefront.com](https://docs.wavefront.com) and supersedes the documentation at the [Wavefront Community](https://community.wavefront.com/docs/) site which is deprecated. 

The documentation site supports hierarchical navigation, non-hierarchical labels, and robust search.

In-product documentation links go to the new site and individual URLs in the Wavefront Community redirect to their equivalent in the new site.