---
title: 2017-40.x Release Notes
keywords: release notes
sidebar: doc_sidebar
published: false
permalink: 2017_40.x_release_notes.html
summary: Learn about new and updated features in the Wavefront 2017-40.x release.
---

2017-40.x release highlights:
- New Source Browser
- New Source Detail page
- Tesla integration (Beta)
- Other improvements

## New Source Browser

Wavefront 2017-40.x ships with a new Source Browser that allows you to examine the sources (hosts etc.) in your environment. Features include:
* Point rate spark-line charts for each source.
* Source status info and ability to filter by status.

  **New Sources**&mdash;New sources are marked with a **New** label on the source.

  The Status column displays information about:
   * **Recent Metrics**&mdash;Metrics received in the last 2 days.
   * **Obsolete**&mdash;No metrics received in the last 4 weeks.
   * **Metrics Stopped**&mdash;No metrics received for 2 days.

* Display of integrations that are associated with each source.
* Ability to search for sources that emit a specific metric.

### Use API to Retrieve Obsolete Sources

You can use the source search API with the **~status.error** tag to retrieve sources that have not reported a metric for more than 4 weeks.

## New Source Detail Page

From the Source Browser, you can select a source and view its Source Details page, which includes the following information:

* Metrics point rate for the source.
* Alerts fired for the source.
* A tabbed display of:
  * All metrics for the source, with a Filter Metrics option.
  * All dashboards that include the source (refreshed daily).
  * System usage for the source.
  * Integrations associated with the source

## Tesla Integration (Beta)

Do you own a Tesla? Wavefront can now collect metrics for your Tesla using the Tesla web API.

To try this new feature:

1. Log in to your Wavefront account.
2. Go to &lt;your-wavefront-domain&gt;.wavefront.com/extdata.
3. Click **Add Tesla Metrics** on the left and supply the information about your Tesla account when prompted.

This new capability is introduced as a Beta feature in this release. In a following release we plan to introduce a new integration (in the Integrations page).

Try it out and let us know what you think!

## Other Improvements

The Wavefront 2017.40.x release includes the following additional changes.
* For Variable Details, increased maxlength from 20 to 64 characters.
* Alert metrics now populate more frequently. As a result, the alert metrics are more up to date.
* For integrations, the Metrics tab includes a source selector, which allows you to compare sources.
