---
title: 2018-50.x Release Notes
keywords: release notes
tags: [release notes]
sidebar: doc_sidebar
permalink: 2018.50.x_release_notes.html
summary: New and updated features.
---


## Distributed Tracing

This release supports several approaches to distributed tracing. Distributed tracing starts with sending trace data from your applications into Wavefront. Because Wavefront integrates trace data with metrics, you can use Wavefront charts and dashboards for tasks such as the following:

* Monitor your application to make sure its response times are as expected.
* Troubleshoot and analyze reported errors.
* Pinpoint the specific operations that bottlenecks occur in.

How you [instrument your application for tracing](tracing_instrumenting_frameworks.html) depends on the tools and SDKs the application is using. Wavefront supports the [OpenTracing](https://opentracing.io/) standard.

Use our docs and [the Beachshirts sample application](https://github.com/wavefrontHQ/hackathon/tree/master/distributed-tracing) to learn more. This video shows how to examine services, operations, traces, and spans.  

XX Screen shot or (more likely) video here

## Wavefront Observability SDKs

Wavefront has added a significant number of new SDKs that allow you to instrument your application stack at different levels. You can find our SDKs in our [github repository](https://github.com/wavefrontHQ). SDK releases and updates are completely independent from Wavefront service releases. We mention them in these release notes because other features in this release depend in part on the new SDKs.

## Threshold Alerts

Classic alerts have a single severity level (e.g. SEVERE) and a set of alert targets. When the alert targets are notified, all alert targets get the notification. Threshold alerts allow finer control:
* When you create a threshold alert, you associate different severity levels with different thresholds. For example, a CPU load over 5000 is SEVERE, a CPU load over 4000 is WARN.
* You also associate one or more alert targets with each severity.
* When the alert is updated, a notification of the specified level is sent to all alert targets. For example, if CPU load is over 4000 for the specified amount of time, the set of targets associated with WARN are notified. Later, if CPU load is over 5000, the set of targets associated with SEVERE are notified.
[Creating a threshold alert](http://docs-sandbox-a.wavefront.com/alerts.html#creating-a-threshold-alert) is similar to creating a classic alert.

XX Video here.
