---
title: 2018-22.x Release Notes
keywords: release notes
sidebar: doc_sidebar
permalink: 2018.22.x_release_notes.html
published: false
summary: Learn about new and updated features.
---

2018-22.x release highlights:
* Improved event performance
* Enhanced support for Amazon CloudTrail events
* Miscellaneous improvements


## Improved Event Performance
This release includes several improvements to event performance. The improvements are especially noticable if you don't use wildcards and you don't use `NOT`.

To get this significant performance improvement, you'll see some changes:
* The maxiumum for ongoing events is now 1000.
* If you create an event with an end time, then you can no longer make changes to the event name or other event properties later.
* After upgrade to release 2018.22.x:
  - Wavefront closes any event with a start time after the upgrade that is older than 60 days (based on start time).
  - Wavefront closes any event with a start time before the upgrade that is older than 30 days (based on start time).

This release also tracks more events than earlier releases. See [When Does an Event Query Return Events?](http://docs.wavefront.com/events_queries.html#when-does-an-event-query-return-events)

## Enhanced Support for Amazon CloudTrail

With this release, the Amazon CloudTrail integration groups all your AWS API calls by the minute and creates metrics that report this per-minute rate. Each metric starts with `aws.cloudtrail.event.*` and can be queried from the Wavefront UI. You can filter the metrics using the following point tags that are also new in this release:

* `eventType`
* `eventSource`
* `Region`
* `accountId`
* `bucketName`

In addition, the metric `aws.cloudtrail.event.total-per-minute` reports the per-minute count of *all* AWS API calls recorded by the AWS CloudTrail integration.

See [CloudTrail Events, Metrics and Point Tags](integrations_aws_metrics.html#cloudtrail-events-metrics-and-point-tags) for details.

## Miscellaneous Improvements

*  The default data format for direct ingestion is now `wavefront` (`f=wavefront`) even if you don't specify a data format. The legacy `f=graphite_v2` format -- an alias for `f=wavefront` -- is still supported to maintain backward compatibility. Because we want to deprecate `f=graphite_2` we've removed `f=graphite_2` from the documentation.
* We've improved how `aliasSource` works for more consistent behavior for series matching:
  - When you use `aliasSource` with node extraction or regex replacement, the generated source names are now converted to lowercase.
  - When you use `aliasSource()` with a static string (e.g. `aliasSource(ts(<metric.name>), "Source.Test")`, source names continue to retain their original case.
