---
title: 2018-46.x Release Notes
keywords: release notes
tags: [release notes]
sidebar: doc_sidebar
permalink: 2018.46.x_release_notes.html
summary: Learn about new and updated features.
---

## AI Genie Anomaly Detection and Forecasting (Beta)

This release includes a Beta of the new [AI Genie UI](ai_genie.html) for anomaly detection and forecasting.
* Access AI Genie from any chart using the **Open AI Genie** button.

  [open genie](images/open_ai_genie.png)
* Select **Anomaly Detection** to highlight anomalous behavior. This tab wraps the [`anomalous()` function](ts_anomalous.html) around your query.
* Select **Forecasting** to view a forecast for your current query. You can set a time window and confidence bands.

## Enhancements to Wavefront Authorization

We've made multiple enhancements to [Wavefront authorization](authorization.html):
* [Groups](users_groups.html) make it easy to quickly make changes such as assigning permissions to many users at once.
* Permission names that are visible in the UI are now more consistent and intuitive.
* To assign permissions to new users, you can:
  - Explicitly set [default new user permissions](users_groups.html#setting-default-permissions-for-new-users), as before.
  - Specify a [default group for new users](users_groups.html#setting-the-default-group-for-new-users) and set the permissions for that group (recommended).
* **Browse Data** no longer exists as an explicit permission. [The tasks that a new user can perform](users_groups.html#what-can-a-new-user-do) did not change.
* The [Wavefront REST API](wavefront_api.html) includes a new `UserGroup` object.

## Object-Based Access Control

Wavefront has always supported global permissions. Customers have asked for access control for individual objects, and we're making it available for dashboards in this release.
* During roll-out, we create an Everyone group that includes all current and future users. That group is added to the View & Modify access list of all dashboards. As a result, all users with the **Dashboard**  permission can continue to manage all dashboards.
* Users with Dashboard permission can change access:
  - From the Dashboard browser for one or more dashboards.
  - Using the Share icon on individual dashboards.
* In high security environments, users with `Users & Groups` permission can turn on a security preference. After that, only the dashboard creator and any Super Admin user can:
  - View and modify new dashboards, that is, dashboards created after the change to the preference.
  - Give other users View or View & Modify access to individual new dashboards.
  Users with View & Modify access can then also invite other users to view or view and modify the dashboard.
* Users who are [Super Admin](users_groups.html#who-is-super-admin) can always change access to any dashboard and can view and restore [orphan dashboards](access.html#making-orphan-dashboards-visible). Initially, one user is Super Admin on each cluster. A Super Admin user can make additiona users Super Admin.

## Default Permissions for New Customers

If you became a Wavefront customer after release 2018.46 went out (January 2019), users in your environment will have a more comprehensive set of default permissions.

Administrators can fine-tune what new users can do by [modifying the permissions](permissions.html#granting-and-revoking-permissions-for-groups) for the Everyone group or by creating User Groups with permission sets.

## Miscellaneous Changes

In the last month we've also [updated the Wavefront proxy](proxies_versions.html) to better support tracing, and we've made additions and [changes to integrations](proxies_versions.html). Additions include a vSphere integration and a Kubernetes integration that uses the Wavefront Kubernetes Collector instead of Heapster.
