---
title: 2020-30.x Release Notes
keywords: release notes
tags: [release notes]
sidebar: doc_sidebar
permalink: 2020.30.x_release_notes.html
summary: New and updated features.
---

These release notes give an overview of the changes for Release 2020.30 of the Wavefront service.

## OpenTelemetry Support in Wavefront

OpenTracing and OpenCensus have merged to form OpenTelemetry. You can use OpenTelemetry to send metrics or traces to Wavefront using the Prometheus, Jaeger, or Zipkin integration. See [OpenTelemetry](opentelemetry.html) for details.

## Tracing Features

### Aggregated RED Metrics

To make RED metric querying faster, Wavefront introduced [pre-aggregated RED metrics](/trace_data_details.html#aggregated-red-metrics).  Querying and aggregating service-level RED metrics can be slow due to high cardinality from operation tags, source tags, and custom tags.

### RED Metrics for Traffic

Traffic shows how applications and services interact with each other. You can visualize traffic data in charts using tracing traffic derived metrics. See [RED Metrics for Traffic](trace_data_details.html#red-metrics-for-traffic) for details.

### External Services and Other Tracing UI Improvements

This release includes several UI improvements. You can use [**Map View Settings**](/tracing_ui_overview.html#application-map-beta) to toggle these features:
* Show/hide **external** applications or services, such as Amazon services or database services that your application communicates with. Group those external services.
* Show/hide **isolated services**, that is, are services that are not used by any of the other services in an application.
* Show/hide service labels.

<iframe src="https://bcove.video/34vKPYb" width="550" height="275" allowfullscreen="true" alt="application map settings"></iframe>

## Miscellaneous Improvements

* More succinct alert notifications to Slack.
* New alert notification parameter `convertWhiteSpace`
* It's now possible to specify threshold-based coloring for a heatmap chart.
* The [`missing`](ts_missing.html) function now returns 0 or 1.

## Documentation Changes

We reorganized our tracing content to help you on-boarding faster. Take a look at the [restructured content and get on board with Wavefront distributed tracing](tracing_basics.html).
