---
title: 2021-14.x Release Notes
keywords: release notes
sidebar: doc_sidebar
permalink: 2021.14.x_release_notes.html
summary: New and updated features.
---

These release notes give an overview of the changes for Release 2021-09.x to 2021-14.x of the Wavefront service.

## Partial Regex Support

You can now filter metrics, sources, source tags, or point tag values by using a subset of regular expressions. For details, see [Query Language Reference](query_language_reference.html#partial-regex-wildcards-aliases-and-variables).

## Application Maps

* The Show Node Counts setting on the Application Map shows the number of instances of a service running on an application. For example, shopping (5) shows you that five shopping service instances are running on the beachshirts application.
* UI updates: You can right-click and open a link in a new browser window or tab.

## Tracing Features

* When you search for traces using the trace ID on the trace browser, your trace ID needs to be in the UUID format (example: 00000000-0000-0000-1111-111111111111). If you copy-paste a trace ID that is not in the UUID format, Wavefront transforms it for you.
* From the Application Status Table View, you can now drill down not only to the Service Dashboard or Traces Browser, but also to the Operation Dashboard. See [Table View](tracing_ui_overview.html#table-view).

## Authorization Improvements

Super admin users can use the Wavefront REST API to log out other users. See [Sign Out a User](accounts.html#sign-out-a-user).

## Histogram and Heat Map Chart Improvements

You can apply threshold markers to histogram and heat map charts as a variable that is defined by a query expression. See [How Do I Set Up Thresholds for Histograms and Heat Map Charts](ui_charts_faq.html#how-do-i-set-up-thresholds-for-histograms-and-heat-map-charts).

## Miscellaneous Improvements

* Ordering items, displays them from the highest to the lowest. For example, when you navigate to the Alerts Browser and click **Fired in the last month**, the alerts are sorted from the highest number of firing to the lowest.<!---MONIT-20785--->
* **Show Single Line Gradient** on the chart settings allows you to turn off or turn on the single line color gradient.
* UI updates: Updates in the Wavefront taskbar.
* Exclude values from the search field by using the not equal sign. See [Search Field](wavefront_searching.html#search-field).
