---
title: 2021-40.x - 2021-49.x Release Notes
keywords: release notes
sidebar: doc_sidebar
permalink: 2021.49.x_release_notes.html
summary: New and updated features.
---

These release notes give an overview of the changes for the 2021-40.x to 2021-49.x releases of the Wavefront service. 


## 2021-49.x Release Notes

* New `isAlertRetriggered` option allows to you [customize alert notifications](alert_target_customizing.html#tailor-content-to-the-trigger-type) if **Resend Notifications** is checked.

## 2021-48.x Release Notes

* **vRealize Operations Integration v1**: We now have released the first version of the vRealize Operations integration. It currently fetches only vCenter Server adapter resources, such as Cluster Compute Resource and Datastore. We will add more features to this integration in future releases. For information about setting up the integration, the current limitations and caveats, see [vRealize Operations Integration Overview](integrations_vrops.html).
* **Metrics Browser Improvements**: Consistency improvements for the [Metrics Browser](metrics_managing.html#metrics-browser).
  - Unclutter that page with **Load More** option.
  - Improve accessibility.

## 2021-46.x Release Notes

* **Integration Improvements**: November integrations are live! See [Integration Release Notes](integrations_new_changed_2021.html#november-2021).
* **New Doc Pages**:
  - [Improve Query Performance](query_language_performance.html) has tips and tricks for fine-tuning queries.
  - [Ensure Optimal Dashboard Performance](ui_dashboards.html#ensure-optimal-dashboard-performance) has been revamped to include tips about sampling, dynamic variables, and more.

## 2021-44.x Release Notes

* **Share Section URLs**: You can now [share links to sections](ui_sharing.html#share-a-link-to-a-dashboard-section) from any dashboard.
* **PromQL-Related Improvements**: In addition to [setting up Wavefront as a WQL data source in Grafana](grafana.html), you can now also set up [Wavefront as a Prometheus data source in Grafana](integrations_grafana.html). This way, you can visualize the PromQL data stored in Wavefront by using the Grafana GUI.

## 2021-43.x Release Notes

* **Accessibility Improvements**: We have made a number of keyboard navigation, colorblind accessibility, and focus indicator fixes. See the full list of pages with [end-to-end keyboard navigation support](wavefront_keyboard_shortcuts.html#ui-pages-with-end-to-end-keyboard-navigation-support).

## 2021-42.x Release Notes

* **New Service Accounts Group**: All existing service accounts are moved from the **Everyone** group to the new **Service Accounts** group. Make sure that you:

   1. Review your Dashboards and Alerts access control lists and include the new **Service Accounts** group, according to your needs.

      For example, if you have granted service accounts with access to certain dashboards and alerts through the **Everyone** group, you must update the access list to include the **Service Accounts** group or specific service accounts, so that the service accounts can access the same dashboards and alerts after the migration.

   2. Review and adjust the permissions that are currently set on your **Service Accounts** group according to your needs.

## 2021-40.x Release Notes

* **SYNTAX_ERROR Alert State**: Starting with this release, a SYNTAX_ERROR alert state indicates that the alert query resulted in a syntax error. This might happen, for example, if a text string with special characters is missing double quotes, but could be the result of other query errors.

   The error state is visible, for example, in the Alerts Browser and the Alerts Browser search bar.

* **Upcoming Service Accounts Changes**: Within the next releases all service accounts that you have created in your Wavefront environment will be moved out of the **Everyone** group and added to a new **Service Accounts** group.

   {% include important.html content="Any roles and groups with the name `Service Accounts` will be marked with the `(Existing)` suffix." %}
