---
title: 2023-18.x - 2023-29.x Release Notes
keywords: release notes
sidebar: doc_sidebar
permalink: 2023-29.x_release_notes.html
summary: New and updated features.
---

These release notes give an overview of the changes for the 2023-18.x to 2023-29.x releases of the Tanzu Observability (formerly known as VMware Aria Operations for Applications) service.


## 2023-29.x Release Notes

### Original and Onboarded Subscriptions

*  **Google Cloud Platform Integration Improvements**: You can now select to ingest histogram metrics as well as filter these metrics by their Google Cloud Platform grouping function. See the [Integrations Release Notes](integrations_new_changed.html#july-2023) for details.

* **Documentation Improvement**: We have added a new [documentation page](integrations_gcp_api.html) which explains how to set up the Google Cloud Platform integration by using our REST API.

## 2023-27.x Release Notes

### Original and Onboarded Subscriptions

**Monitor Google Cloud Run**: You can monitor Google Cloud Run metrics. See the [Integrations Release Notes](integrations_new_changed.html#july-2023) for details.

### Original Subscriptions Only

**Service Accounts Improvement**: With this release, [service accounts](service-accounts.html) can create and modify ingestion policies when they have the **Ingestion Policies** permission. 

## 2023-25.x Release Notes

* **Wavefront Proxy Release**: We’ve just released [Wavefront proxy 13](https://github.com/wavefrontHQ/wavefront-proxy/releases), which supports sending data to Operations for Applications subscriptions **onboarded** to VMware Cloud Services by using a VMware Cloud services access token.
* **New Fields in the Generic Webhook Alert Template**: We added two new fields to the Generic Webhook notification template which allow you to extract information about the filter-by and group-by keys. For information and examples, see [Extract Information About the Filter-by and Group-by Keys](alert_target_customizing.html#extract-information-about-the-filter-by-and-group-by-keys).

## 2023-20.x Release Notes

**The Group By Parameter Is Case-Sensitive**: With this release, when you apply the `group by` parameter to aggregation function queries, the grouping is case-sensitive. For more information and details, see [Aggregation Functions](query_language_reference.html#aggregation-functions) and [Tags Overview](tags_overview.html#tags-basics).

## 2023-18.x Release Notes

* **Upcoming Metrics Obsolescence Period Changes**: Within the next releases we will change the [metrics obsolescence period](https://docs.wavefront.com/metrics_managing.html#obsolete-metrics) from **28 days** to **14 days**. This change will further improve your query performance. Here's what you have to do: 
  * If you are querying for a time series that has not reported points within the last **14 days**, you must select to [Include Obsolete Metrics](https://docs.wavefront.com/metrics_managing.html#obsolete-metrics) for your [charts](https://docs.wavefront.com/ui_charts.html#include-metrics-that-stopped-reporting) or [dashboards](https://docs.wavefront.com/ui_dashboards.html#set-dashboard-display-preferences-and-settings). 
  * If the data you are querying for does have data points within the last **14 days**, you do not need to do anything.

  If you have any questions or concerns, please do not hesitate to [contact us](mailto:support@wavefront.com).

* **Alert Checking Frequency**: When you create an alert, the default alert checking frequency is now set to 5 minutes. If you want to change the default value, define the **Checking Frequency** when you create or edit the alert. For more information on the checking frequency, see [How Are Alerts Evaluated](alerts.html#how-are-alerts-evaluated).
