---
title: Wavefront Spring Boot Starter
keywords:
tags: 
sidebar: doc_sidebar
permalink: wavefront_springboot.html
summary: Using Wavefront with Springboot
---

The Wavefront Spring Boot Starter allows you to quickly configure your environment so Spring Boot components send metrics, histograms, and traces/spans to the Wavefront service. After you've completed setup, you can examine the data in a preconfigured dashboard.

## Getting Spring Boot Data Into Wavefront

You have two options for getting Spring Boot data into Wavefront:
* Wavefront included a [Micrometer integration](micrometer.html) for several years. This custom integration allows you to send your own metrics and create dashboards for them. The integration uses the [Wavefront Reporter for Micrometer](https://github.com/micrometer-metrics/micrometer).
* Wavefront made the Wavefront Spring Boot Starter available recently. It supports easy integration of metrics, histograms, and traces/spans and includes preconfigured customizable dashboards.

<table style="width: 100%;">
<tbody>
<thead>
<tr><th width="25%">&nbsp;</th><th width="40%">Micrometer Integration</th><th width="45%">Wavefront Spring Boot Starter</th></tr>
</thead>
<tr>
<td><strong>Setup</strong></td>
<td>
1. Set up Maven or Gradle<br>
2. Customize the configuration file</td>
<td>Auto Configuration or Custom Configuration options</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Supported telemetry</strong></td>
<td>Metrics</td>
<td>Metrics, histograms, traces/spans</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Ingestion options</strong></td>
<td>Proxy, direct ingestion </td>
<td>Proxy, direct ingestion </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Visualization</strong></td>
<td>Create dashboards, add charts, specify metrics.  </td>
<td>Clone and customize predefined dashboard.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Trial required?</strong></td>
<td>Yes. Sign up for a free trial.</td>
<td>No. Use the free cluster (limited ingestion) <strong>or</strong> sign up for a trial. </td>
</tr>

</tbody>
</table>

### What it Offers

If you use the Wavefront Spring Boot Starter:
* You have out of the box you have tracing support for all the common Spring Boot components, such as Spring MVC, Spring Web, Spring Async, Feign, Hysterix, JMS, JDBC, Mongo, Zuul, Reactor, RxJava, Redis, Logging, Spring Messaging, and Rabbit MQ.
* The spans in your applications are automatically propagated to the format Wavefront span format.
* All the logs generated by the logger in your application will automatically convert to span logs, and you can view them in [Wavefront Tracing Browser](https://docs.wavefront.com/tracing_ui_overview.html#drill-down-into-spans-and-view-metrics-and-span-logs). You do not need to do any code change for it.

{% include note.html content="You will not see Span logs in the freemium offering. Reach out to us on our public [Slack channel](https://www.wavefront.com/join-public-slack) for more details." %}

## Getting Started

{{site.data.alerts.note}}
Your application needs to support Java 8 or above.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

### Step 1: Initialize Your Project

Follow the simple steps given below:

* **Using an Existing Project** <br/>
  Open your application and the following code to your pom.xml file. 
    ```
    <dependency>
      <groupId>com.wavefront</groupId>
      <artifactId>wavefront-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
      <version>2.0.0</version>
    </dependency>
    ```

* **Starting from Scratch** <br/>
  Navigate to the Spring Initializer, define the project name, Spring version, and the other parameters. Next. select Wavefront from the dependency list, and click Generate project. 
  <br/> **Add Screenshot!**
  <br/>
  Now, you add the application logic and start the project.
  
### Step 2:  View Your Data on Wavefront

Follow the steps given below to start sending your data to Wavefront and to view them:

1. Start your project, and you see the following printed on your console:
   <br/>Example:
    ```
    w.s.WavefrontSpringBootAutoConfiguration : ==========================
    w.s.WavefrontSpringBootAutoConfiguration : See Wavefront Application Observability Data (one-time use link): https://wavefront.surf/us/XXXXXXXXXX
    w.s.WavefrontSpringBootAutoConfiguration : ===========================
    ```
2. Click the link and you are taken to the Wavefront Service Dashboard where you can view the data sent by your application.
    {% include note.html content="Want to see the cool information you can gather from the Service Dashboard? See [Explore the Default Service Dashboard](tracing_ui_overview.html#explore-the-default-service-dashboard)." %}

{% include tip.html content="[Try out this tutorial](wavefront_springboot_tutorial.html) and see how you can send your data to Wavefront in a few simple steps!" %}

## Frequently Asked Questions

* **What is the difference between the free Spring Boot cluster and a Wavefront trial?**

  The free cluster supports limited data ingestion throughput with a 5-day retention and no SLA guarantees. It allows Spring Boot developers to try out Wavefront without having to sign-up or provide an email address.

  The [Wavefront trial](https://www.wavefront.com/sign-up/) allows you to experience the full power of the Wavefront platform by bringing in data from your cloud environments (AWS/GCP/Azure/vSphere), Kubernetes, over 200 integrations, and large-scale service fleets into a single observability platform. We ask that you tell us more about yourself when signing up for a trial.

* **What is the retention and Service Level Agreement (SLA) on the free cluster?**

  While this is subject to changes at any time, we currently retain 5 days of data and offer no SLA on the free Wavefront cluster. Production Wavefront clusters currently offer 18 months of full-resolution (no downsampling) data retention for metrics, 6 months for histograms, and 30 days for spans. We also have a 99.95% uptime guarantee, as well as High Availability (HA) and Disaster Recovery (DR) options.

  Reach out to us on our public [Slack channel](https://www.wavefront.com/join-public-slack) for more information.

* **Why do I not see a link to access the Wavefront service on start-up?**

  * You do not see a single-use login link if you are using a Wavefront cluster that does not support automatic account provisioning, which currently only applies to our free cluster. Therefore, make sure you log in to your cluster via the login page or SSO.
  * You do not have a valid token. Check that the .wavefront_token file in your home directory has a valid token or delete it to automatically provision a new account on the free cluster. Note that you will lose access to your existing account if you do not have a backup to the token file.
  * If you see the following, data is sent to the Wavefront service even if the login link is not shown.

    ```text
    w.s.WavefrontSpringBootAutoConfiguration : Activating Wavefront Spring Micrometer Reporting...
    w.s.WavefrontSpringBootAutoConfiguration : Activating Wavefront OpenTracing Tracer...
    ```

* **How do I make sure I send data to the same account all the time (across multiple machines and deployments)?**

  * If you are just trying out Wavefront, see [Manage Service Accounts](https://docs.wavefront.com/service_accounts.html) to create a service account that has a static token for reporting. Once you have the token, add it to the wavefront.properties file (`token=<your_token>`).
  * If you are using Wavefront in a larger deployment, sign-up for a Wavefront trial at www.wavefront.com and see [Manage Service Accounts](https://docs.wavefront.com/service_accounts.html) to learn how to create a service account. Next, add the token and URL (`url=longboard.wavefront.com`) to the wavefront.properties file. We are more than happy to help you with sizing and designing large-scale collection architectures for metrics, histograms, and traces
 
* **How do I setup an email/password login to the account?**

  When you sign-in to your account via the single-use link, click the gear icon on the top-right and select User Management. Next, you can invite yourself by email (a password setup link is sent to your email address, and you can use it to set up a password).

* **How do I get help?**

  We have a public [Slack channel](https://www.wavefront.com/join-public-slack) as well as in-product help, documentation, and chat.
