---
title: Wavefront Spring Boot Starter
keywords:
tags: 
sidebar: doc_sidebar
permalink: wavefront_springboot.html
summary: Using Wavefront with Spring Boot
---

The Wavefront Spring Boot Starter allows you to quickly configure your environment, so Spring Boot components send metrics, histograms, and traces/spans to the Wavefront service. After you've completed setup, you can examine the data in a preconfigured dashboard.

## Getting Spring Boot Data into Wavefront

You have two options for getting Spring Boot data into Wavefront:
* Wavefront included a [Micrometer integration](micrometer.html) for several years. This custom integration allows you to send your own metrics and create dashboards for them. The integration uses the [Wavefront Reporter for Micrometer](https://github.com/micrometer-metrics/micrometer).
* Wavefront made the Wavefront Spring Boot Starter available recently. It supports easy integration of metrics, histograms, and traces/spans and includes pre-configured customizable dashboards.

<table style="width: 100%;">
<tbody>
<thead>
<tr><th width="25%">&nbsp;</th><th width="40%">Micrometer Integration</th><th width="45%">Wavefront Spring Boot Starter</th></tr>
</thead>
<tr>
<td><strong>Setup</strong></td>
<td>
1. Set up Maven or Gradle<br>
2. Customize the configuration file</td>
<td>Auto Configuration or Custom Configuration options</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Supported telemetry</strong></td>
<td>Metrics</td>
<td>Metrics, histograms, traces/spans</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Ingestion options</strong></td>
<td>Proxy, direct ingestion </td>
<td>Proxy, direct ingestion </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Visualization</strong></td>
<td>Create dashboards, add charts, specify metrics.  </td>
<td>Clone and customize the predefined dashboard.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Trial required?</strong></td>
<td>Yes. Sign up for a free trial.</td>
<td>No. Use the free cluster (limited ingestion) <strong>or</strong> sign up for a trial. </td>
</tr>

</tbody>
</table>

### Features

If you use the Wavefront Spring Boot Starter:
* You have out of the box you have tracing support for all the common Spring Boot components, such as Spring MVC, Spring Web, Spring Async, Feign, Hysterix, JMS, JDBC, Mongo, Zuul, Reactor, RxJava, Redis, Logging, Spring Messaging, and Rabbit MQ.
* The spans in your applications are automatically converted to the Wavefront span format.
* The logs generated by the logger in your application are automatically converted to span logs, and you can view the span logs in [Wavefront Tracing Browser](https://docs.wavefront.com/tracing_ui_overview.html#drill-down-into-spans-and-view-metrics-and-span-logs). You do not need to do any code change for it.

{% include note.html content="You will not see span logs in the freemium offering. Reach out to us on our public [Slack channel](https://www.wavefront.com/join-public-slack) for more details." %}

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
Your application needs to support Java 8 or above.

### Step 1: Initialize Your Project

Initialization is different for existing or new projects 

* **Initialize an Existing Project** <br/>
  Open your application and the following code to your pom.xml file. 
    ```
    <dependency>
      <groupId>com.wavefront</groupId>
      <artifactId>wavefront-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
      <version>2.0.0</version>
    </dependency>
    ```

* **Initialize a New Project** <br/>
  1. Navigate to the Spring Initializr: https://start.spring.io/
  2. Define the project name, Spring version, and the other parameters.
      <br/> **{Add Screenshot}**
  3. Select Wavefront from the dependency list, and click Generate project. 
      <br/> **{Add Screenshot}**
  4. Now, you add the application logic and start the project.
  
### Step 2:  View Your Data on Wavefront

Follow the steps given below to start sending your data to Wavefront and to view them:

1. Start your project, and you see the following printed on your console:
   <br/>Example:
    ```
    w.s.WavefrontSpringBootAutoConfiguration : ==========================
    w.s.WavefrontSpringBootAutoConfiguration : See Wavefront Application Observability Data (one-time use link): https://wavefront.surf/us/XXXXXXXXXX
    w.s.WavefrontSpringBootAutoConfiguration : ===========================
    ```
2. Click the link and you are taken to the Wavefront Service dashboard where you can examine the data sent by your application.
    {% include note.html content="Want to see the cool information you can gather from the Service Dashboard? See [Explore the Default Service Dashboard](tracing_ui_overview.html#explore-the-default-service-dashboard)." %}

## Next Steps

* [Try out Wavefront Spring Boot Tutorial](wavefront_springboot_tutorial.html) and see how you can send your data to Wavefront in a few simple steps!
* Check out the [Wavefront Spring Boot Starter FAQs](wavefront_spring_boot_faq.html).
